s1,12,20-------
Q1. Create a dataframe containing information about different products such as Price, Rating, and
Number of Sales. Generate a Dendrogram to group similar products based on their characteristics.
Q2. Using the built-in Iris dataset, apply K-Means clustering with K = 3. Plot the datapoints, visualize
the clusters with different colors, and display the cluster centroids.


s2--------
Q1. Write a Python program to create an age_records DataFrame containing the attributes Person_ID
and Age for suitable sample records. Perform Data Discretization on the Age attribute using
Equal Width Binning. Display the original and discretized data.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Apply Linear Regression on a YouTube Video dataset to predict video views using relevant video
attributes. Visualize the relationship between the predictor and target variable using a scatter plot
and regression line.



s3--------
Q1. Create a dataframe containing information about different vehicles such as Fuel_Efficiency,
Engine_Power, Vehicle_Weight, Engine_Size, and Acceleration. Add 5 records in dataframe,
including outlier. Create Box Plots for Fuel Efficiency and Engine Power and identify outliers.
[10 Marks]
Q2. Apply the Random Forest algorithm on the Heart Disease dataset to predict the presence of heart
disease. Preprocess the data, evaluate the model using accuracy and confusion matrix.


s4,s11--------
Q1. A survey was conducted to determine the preferred payment method among customers as shown
below:
payment_methods = ["UPI", "Credit Card", "Debit Card", "Cash", "Net Banking"]
customers = [150, 80, 60, 40, 30]
Create a Pie Chart to represent the percentage of customers using each payment method. Display
the percentage contribution of each category and add an appropriate title.

Q2. Apply the K-Means Clustering algorithm on the given E-commerce Customer dataset. Read the
dataset using Python, inspect and preprocess the data by handling missing values and selecting
suitable numerical features. Apply K-Means clustering to segment the customers into different
categories and interpret the resulting clusters.



s5--------
Q1. Write a Python program to create a customer_DataFrame with suitable attributes such as
Customer_ID, Gender, City, and Membership_Type. Perform label encoding technique on
appropriate categorical attributes. Display the DataFrame before and after encoding.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Generate a DataFrame containing customer information for Netflix and Amazon Prime users.
Create a Venn diagram and a Pie chart to show the customers using only Netflix, only Amazon
Prime, and both services. Add appropriate labels, colors, and titles to both visualizations.


s6--------
Q1. Create a DataFrame containing the car model, engine size (in litres), and fuel efficiency (in km/L)
for the given cars. Create a scatter plot to visualize the relationship between engine size and
fuel efficiency.Add an appropriate title, label both axes, and use different colors for the
data points.

Q2. Use the Sports Performance dataset to develop a Simple Linear Regression model to predict
Performance Score based on Training Hours Per Week. Evaluate the model using the R2 score
and plot a scatter graph with the regression line to visualize the relationship between training
hours and performance score.



s7--------
Q1. Consider the following dataset representing the number of students enrolled in different courses:
courses = ["BCA", "BBA", "B.Com", "B.Sc", "BA"]
students = [60, 45, 75, 50, 35]
Create a Bar Chart to visualize the number of students enrolled in each course. Use different bar
colors, add an appropriate title, and label both axes.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Implement a KNN classifier on the given Student dataset. Preprocess the data and classify
students into different performance categories. Evaluate the model using Accuracy and
Confusion Matrix.


s8--------

Q1. Create a suitable dataset containing information about earthquakes using Latitude, Longitude,
Depth, and Magnitude. Perform the following tasks:
a. Create a Geospatial Visualization to display the locations of earthquakes on a map.
b. Use color to represent the magnitude of each earthquake.
Q2. Apply Simple Linear Regression on the Salary dataset to predict Salary using Years of
Experience. Split the data into training and testing sets, plot the regression line, and evaluate the
model using MSE.


s9--------

Q1. Write a Python program to create a product DataFrame with the attributes Product_ID, Price,
Quantity_Sold, Discount, and Revenue. Apply Min-Max Scaling data transformation techniques
on the DataFrame and display the transformed data.

Q2. Create a dataset containing information about different books with the attributes Book Title,
Author, Publication Year, Average Rating, and Number of Ratings.
Perform the following tasks on created dataset:
a. Create a Venn Diagram comparing the authors of books published in two different time
periods.
b. Generate a Word Cloud using the book titles.



s10--------
Q1. A company conducted a survey to determine the preferred mode of transportation among
employees as shown below:
transport = [“Train", "Bicycle", "Bike", "Car", "Bus"],
employees = [220, 60, 70, 80, 40]
Create a Pie Chart to represent the percentage of employees using each mode of transportation.
Display the percentage contribution of each category. Give appropriate labels and colors.
[10 Marks]
Q2. Using the given housing dataset, develop a Random Forest Regression model to predict house
prices based on the available property attributes. Perform the necessary data preprocessing, train
and test the model, and evaluate its predictive performance using Mean Absolute Error (MAE),
Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), and R2 Score.



s11--------
Q1. An organization has recorded the number of employees working in different departments such as
HR, Finance, IT, Sales, and Marketing. Write a Python program to create a bar chart showing the
distribution of employees among these departments. Display suitable labels and a title.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Apply Logistic Regression to classify smartphones into different price categories using the given
smartphone dataset. Preprocess the data appropriately and assess the model using Accuracy, F1-
Score, and Confusion Matrix.



s12--------

Q1. Load the Titanic dataset (titanic.csv) Create a histogram showing the number of passengers in
each passenger class. Create a Pie Chart showing the survival distribution.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Apply Polynomial Regression to predict song popularity using audio features such as
danceability, energy, and tempo. Evaluate the model using MAE, RMSE, and R2 Score, and
visualize the fitted curve.


s13--------
Q1. A retail store has recorded the daily sales for two months. Create a dataframe using sales.csv file
and generate a Box Plot to identify any outliers. Customize the graph with title and labels.
[10 Marks]
Q2. Implement the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) algorithm to classify the Wine dataset. Perform the
required data preprocessing, model training, and testing, and evaluate the model performance
using Accuracy, Precision, Recall, and F1-Score.


s14--------

Q1. Create a dataframe containing information about different products such as Price, Rating, and
Number of Sales. Generate a Dendrogram to group similar products based on their characteristics.
[10 Marks]
Q2. Using the Car Price Prediction dataset, apply Polynomial Regression to predict the Selling Price
based on Vehicle Age, Present Price, and Kilometers Driven. Evaluate the model using the R2
Score and visualize the actual data points along with the fitted polynomial curve.



s15,s18--------
Q1. Write a Python program to create an age_records DataFrame containing the attributes Person_ID
and Age for suitable sample records. Perform Data Discretization on the Age attribute using
Equal Frequency Binning. Display the original and discretized data.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Create a DataFrame containing information about different cities with the attributes City, Area
(sq. km), Average Temperature (°C), Rainfall (mm), and Population Density. Generate a
Treemap to visualize the population density of each city and create a 3D Scatter Plot using Area,
Average Temperature, and Rainfall. Add suitable labels, colors, and titles to both visualizations.


s16--------
Q1. Create a DataFrame containing student performance data with attributes such as Study Hours,
Attendance, Assignment Score, and Exam Score. Calculate the correlation matrix for these
attributes and generate a Heat Map to visualize the correlation between them. Display the
correlation values, suitable labels, and an appropriate title.

[10 Marks]

Q2. Write a Python program to create a DataFrame with the attributes Temperature, Humidity, Wind-
Speed, Pressure, and Rainfall. Apply the following data transformation techniques and display

the transformed data:
a)Min-MaxScaling
b)Standardization
c) Normalization



s17--------
Q1. Write a Python program to create two DataFrames, student_details and academic_records,
containing suitable student-related attributes. Perform data integration by combining the two
DataFrames using a common attribute such as Student_ID. Display the individual DataFrames
and the integrated DataFrame.

[10 Marks]
Q2. Create a dataset containing information about different cities with the attributes: City, Population,
GDP, and Literacy Rate. Perform the following visualization tasks:
a. Generate a Treemap showing city-wise population distribution.
b. Create a 3D Scatter Plot using Population, GDP, and Literacy Rate.


s19--------

Q1. Write a Python program to create an employee_data DataFrame with the attributes: Emp_ID,
Age, Dept, Years_Experience, and Performance_Rating. Perform data cleaning by handling
missing values, remove duplicate records and detecting outliers using the IQR method.
[10 Marks]
Q2. Consider the World Cities dataset containing attributes - city, country, latitude, longitude, and
population information. Perform the following tasks:
a. Create a Geospatial Visualization showing the locations of cities on a world map, using
marker size to represent population.
b. Create a Treemap to visualize the population distribution of cities.